# Storing UTF-8 Encoded Text with Strings

- Strings are implemented as a collection of bytes.
- Rust has only one string type in the core language, which is the string slice `str` that is usually seen in its borrowed form `&str`.
- The `String` type, which is provided by Rust's standard library rather than coded into the core language, is a growable, mutable, owned, UTF-8 encoded string type.
- Both `String` and string slices are UTF-8 encoded.

## Creating a New String

- To create a an instance, an empty string, use the `String::new` function.
- If we'll have some initial data with which we want to start the string, we use the `to_string` method.

## Updating a String

- A `String` can grow in size and its contents can change.

### Appending to a String with `push_str` and `push`

- We can grow a `String` by using the `push_str` method to append a string slice.
- The `push` method takes a single character as a parameter an adds it to the `String`.

### Concatenation with the `+` Operator or the `format!` Macro

- There are a lot of details when using `+` operator to concatenate strings. recheck the book again if you are curious.
- For combining multiple strings in more complicated ways, we can instead use the `format!` macro.
- The `format!` macro works like `println!`, but instead of printing the output to the screen, it returns a `String` with the contents.
- The version of the code using `format!` is easier to read, and the code generated by the `format!` macro uses references so that this call does **NOT** take ownership of any of its parameters.

## Indexing into Strings

- Rust strings do **NOT** support indexing.
- An index into the string's bytes will not always correlate to a valid Unicode scalar value.

### Internal Representation

- A `String` is a wrapper over a `Vec<u8>`.

## Slicing Strings

- You should use caution when creating string slices with ranges, because doing so can crash your program.

## Methods for iterating over Strings

- The best way to operate on pieces of strings is to be explicit about whether you want characters or bytes.
- For individual unicode scalar values, use the `chars` method.
- Alternatively, the `bytes` method returns each raw bytes, which might be appropriate for you domain.
- To remember that valid Unicode scalar values may be made up of more than one byte.s
